# Window-form-application
Exercise 1: In this exercise, you are required to demonstrate ability to create a connection with SQL Server database and successfully connect and disconnect. To accomplish the task: a) Create a table in SQL Server to capture student information including: • Student Roll Number (Integer, PK, Auto Increment) • Student Name (Varchar (50), First, Last Name) • Class Name (Varchar (50)) • Address (Varchar (200)) • Gender (Bit (1=Male, 0=Female)) b) Create a windows form with two buttons, Connect and Disconnect. • Create a global connection object (at form level). • In the code behind of (Connect) button, write code to initialize connection object and connect with SQL Server database. On successful connection display success message or failure otherwise. • In the code behind of (Disconnect) button, write code to close connect initialize connection with database and display connection status accordingly. c) Allows the windows form to capture student information. User should be able to save student information in SQL Server database. Display appropriate message success / error etc. To accomplish the task make use of: • SqlConnection • Sql Command d) To build up insert query make use of string.format function for in place value / parameter replacement. After successfully inserting record in database, display number of affected records in message box to user. Exercise 2: Create a windows form which facilitates to search students in database (created in exercise 1) and accepts student name as input and selects matching students from database. User should have an option to search students by matching full name or make use of like criteria e.g. entering Sha as search criteria would bring all students who have their names starting with sha i.e. shahzad and sharoze likewise. Display the returned data and number of fetched records on a form in table layout.
